'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Paul H Alfille, MD
'\" (paul.alfille@gmail.com)
'\"
'\" Device manual page for the OWFS -- 1-wire filesystem package
'\" Based on Dallas Semiconductor, Inc's datasheets, and trial and error.
'\"
'\" Free for all use. No warranty. None. Use at your own risk.
'\"
.TH DS1821 3  2003 "OWFS Manpage" "One-Wire File System"
.SH NAME
.B DS1821
\- Programmable Digital Thermostat and Thermometer
.SH SYNOPSIS
Thermostat.
.PP
.B thermostat
[/[
.B temperature
|
.B temphigh
|
.B templow
|
.B temphighflag
|
.B templowflag
|
.B thermostatmode
|
.B polarity
|
.B 1shot
]]
.SH FAMILY CODE
.PP
.I none
.SH SPECIAL PROPERTIES
.SS temperature
.I read-only, floating point
.br
9-bit resolution temperature. Units are selected from the invoking command line. See
.B owfs(1)
or
.B owhttpd(1)
for choices. Default is Celsius.
Conversion takes 1 second.
.SS temphigh templow
.I read-write. floating point
.br
Temperature limits for alarms. Units are selected from the invoking command line. See
.B owfs(1)
or
.B owhttpd(1)
for choices. Default is Celsius.
.br
Note that alarms are not implemented.
.SS temphighflag, templowflag
.I read-write.  yes-no
.br
.B temphighflag
goes to 1 when
.B temperature
exceeds
.B temphigh
and stays at 1 until it is reset by writing it to zero. 
This state persists across power cycles and operates in both 1-wire and thermostat modes.
.B templowflag 
behaves in the same way, monitoring the temperature with respect to 
.B templow.
.SS thermostatmode
.I read-write. yes-no
.br
When this bit is set to 1 the chip will enter thermostat mode on the next power-up. 
See the datasheet for further information on thermostat mode.
.B NOTE:
Once the DS1821 has entered thermostat mode it cannot be taken out back to 1-wire mode using a 1-wire interface.
Special electrical incantations on the power and data lines must be performed that are not possible with a normal
1-wire bus master. A special circuit is required - see the datasheet for complete details.
.SS polarity
.I read-write. yes-no
.br
Controls the output sense of the thermostat output (DQ) while in thermostat mode.
If 
.B polarity
is 0 the output is active low. If it is 1, active high.
.SS 1shot
.I read-write. yes-no
.br
If this bit is 1, a START CONVERT command will begin a conversion and the chip will enter a low power state when the
conversion is complete.
If the bit is 0 then START CONVERT will begin a conversion and start another one as soon as it is done. 
STOP CONVERSION must be performed to get the conversion cycle to stop.
This interface automatically issues a STOP CONVERSION command when going out of continuous mode.
.SH TEMPERATURE ALARM LIMITS
When the device exceeds either
.I temphigh
or
.I templow
temperature threshold the device is in the alarm state, and will appear in the alarm directory. This provides an easy way to poll for temperatures that are unsafe, especially if 
.I simultaneous
temperature conversion is done.
.PP
Units for the temperature alarms are in the same
.I temperature scale
that was set for
.I temperature
measurements.
.PP
Temperature thresholds are stored in non-volatile memory and persist until changed, even if power is lost.
.SS temphigh
.I read-write, integer
.br
Shows or sets the lower limit for the high temperature alarm state. 
.SS templow
.I read-write, integer
.br
Shows or sets the upper limit for the low temperature alarm state. 
.SH STANDARD PROPERTIES
.SS type
.I read-only, ascii
.br
Chip type: DS1821
.SH DESCRIPTION
'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Paul H Alfille, MD
'\" (paul.alfille@gmail.com)
'\"
'\" Program manual page for the OWFS -- 1-wire filesystem package
'\" Based on Dallas Semiconductor, Inc's datasheets, and trial and error.
'\"
'\" Free for all use. No warranty. None. Use at your own risk.
'\"
.SS 1-Wire
.I 1-wire 
is a wiring protocol and series of devices designed and manufactured
by Dallas Semiconductor, Inc. The bus is a low-power low-speed low-connector
scheme where the data line can also provide power.
.PP
Each device is uniquely and unalterably numbered during manufacture. There are a wide variety
of devices, including memory, sensors (humidity, temperature, voltage,
contact, current), switches, timers and data loggers. More complex devices (like
thermocouple sensors) can be built with these basic devices. There are also
1-wire devices that have encryption included.
.PP
The 1-wire scheme uses a single 
.I bus master
and multiple
.I slaves
on the same wire. The bus master initiates all communication. The slaves can be 
individually discovered and addressed using their unique ID.
.PP
Bus masters come in a variety of configurations including serial, parallel, i2c, network or USB
adapters.
.SS OWFS design
.I OWFS
is a suite of programs that designed to make the 1-wire bus and its
devices easily accessible. The underlying principle is to create a virtual
filesystem, with the unique ID being the directory, and the individual
properties of the device are represented as simple files that can be read and written.
.PP 
Details of the individual slave or master design are hidden behind a consistent interface. The goal is to 
provide an easy set of tools for a software designer to create monitoring or control applications. There 
are some performance enhancements in the implementation, including data caching, parallel access to bus 
masters, and aggregation of device communication. Still the fundamental goal has been ease of use, flexibility
and correctness rather than speed.
.SS DS1821
The
.B DS1821 (3)
is a unique 1-wire device. It is unaddressable, and therefore there can be only one on a given bus. 
It is meant to be programmed once using 1-wire and then permanently installed in a thermostat circuit. 
Once in thermostat mode, it is no longer programmable from a 1-wire interface. 
It is possible to recover it into 1-wire mode but only with a special circuit.

.SH ADDRESSING
Unlike all other 1-wire chips, the 
,B DS1821 (3)
has no unique address. It is addressed as
.B thermostat
and will not announce itself in device discovery (directory listing).
.SH DATASHEET
.br
http://pdfserv.maxim-ic.com/en/ds/DS1821.pdf
.SH SEE ALSO
.SS Programs
.B owfs (1) owhttpd (1) owftpd (1) owserver (1)
.B owdir (1) owread (1) owwrite (1) owpresent (1)
.B owtap (1)
.SS Configuration and testing
.B owfs (5) owfs.aliasfile (5) owtap (1) owmon (1)
.SS Language bindings
.B owtcl (3) owperl (3) owcapi (3)
.SS Clocks
.B DS1427 (3) DS1904 (3) DS1994 (3) DS2404 (3) DS2404S (3) DS2415 (3) DS2417 (3)
.SS ID
.B DS2401 (3) DS2411 (3) DS1990A (3)
.SS Memory
.B DS1982 (3) DS1985 (3) DS1986 (3) DS1991 (3) DS1992 (3) DS1993 (3) DS1995 (3) DS1996 (3) DS2430A (3) DS2431 (3) DS2433 (3) DS2502 (3) DS2506 (3) DS28E04 (3) DS28EC20 (3)
.SS Switches
.B DS2405 (3) DS2406 (3) DS2408 (3) DS2409 (3) DS2413 (3) DS28EA00 (3) InfernoEmbedded (3)
.SS Temperature
.B DS1822 (3) DS1825 (3) DS1820 (3) DS18B20 (3) DS18S20 (3) DS1920 (3) DS1921 (3) DS1821 (3) DS28EA00 (3) DS28E04 (3) EDS0064 (3) EDS0065 (3) EDS0066 (3) EDS0067 (3) EDS0068 (3) EDS0071 (3) EDS0072 (3) MAX31826 (3)
.SS Humidity
.B DS1922 (3) DS2438 (3) EDS0065 (3) EDS0068 (3)
.SS Voltage
.B DS2450 (3)
.SS Resistance
.B DS2890 (3)
.SS Multifunction (current, voltage, temperature)
.B DS2436 (3) DS2437 (3) DS2438 (3) DS2751 (3) DS2755 (3) DS2756 (3) DS2760 (3) DS2770 (3) DS2780 (3) DS2781 (3) DS2788 (3) DS2784 (3)
.SS Counter
.B DS2423 (3)
.SS LCD Screen
.B LCD (3) DS2408 (3)
.SS Crypto
.B DS1977 (3)
.SS Pressure
.B DS2406 (3) TAI8570 (3) EDS0066 (3) EDS0068 (3)
.SS Moisture
.B EEEF (3) DS2438 (3)
.SH AVAILABILITY
http://www.owfs.org
.SH AUTHOR
Paul Alfille (paul.alfille@gmail.com)
