'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Paul H Alfille, MD
'\" (paul.alfille@gmail.com)
'\"
'\" Device manual page for the OWFS -- 1-wire filesystem package
'\" Based on Dallas Semiconductor, Inc's datasheets, and trial and error.
'\"
'\" Free for all use. No warranty. None. Use at your own risk.
'\"
.TH DS1991 3  2003 "OWFS Manpage" "One-Wire File System"
.SH NAME
.B DS1991
\- 1152bit MultiKey iButton
.SH SYNOPSIS
Non-volatile memory with password protection.
.PP
.B 02
[.]XXXXXXXXXXXX[XX][/[
.B subkey0/reset.
.I hex_pwd
|
.B subkey0/password.
.I hex_pwd
|
.B subkey0/secure_data.
.I hex_pwd
|
.B subkey0/id.
.I hex_pwd
.PP
.B 02
[.]XXXXXXXXXXXX[XX][/[
.B subkey1/reset.
.I hex_pwd
|
.B subkey1/password.
.I hex_pwd
|
.B subkey1/secure_data.
.I hex_pwd
|
.B subkey1/id.
.I hex_pwd
.PP
.B 02
[.]XXXXXXXXXXXX[XX][/[
.B subkey0/reset.
.I hex_pwd
|
.B subkey2/password.
.I hex_pwd
|
.B subkey2/secure_data.
.I hex_pwd
|
.B subkey2/id.
.I hex_pwd
'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Paul H Alfille, MD
'\" (paul.alfille@gmail.com)
'\"
'\" Program manual page for the OWFS -- 1-wire filesystem package
'\" Based on Dallas Semiconductor, Inc's datasheets, and trial and error.
'\"
'\" Free for all use. No warranty. None. Use at your own risk.
'\"
.B address
|
.B crc8
|
.B id
|
.B locator
|
.B r_address
|
.B r_id
|
.B r_locator
|
.B type
]]
.SH FAMILY CODE
.PP
.I 02
.SH SPECIAL PROPERTIES
.SS subkey[0|1|2]/reset.hex_pwd
.I write-only, yes-no
.br
Initialize one of the three secure data areas and set a new password.
.PP
The extension (hex_pwd) is the new 8-byte password in hexadecimal (e.g. password.000204006080A0C0E for bytes 0,2,4,6,8,10,12,14)
.PP
The data must be "1" or "yes" to actually reset the subkey.
.PP
.I Note: writing a password will clear any existing data and ID.
.SS subkey[0|1|2]/password.hex_pwd
.I write-only, binary
.br
Change the 
.I password 
of one of the secure subkey areas 
.I without losing data.
.PP
The extension (hex_pwd) is the existing 8-byte 
.I password 
in hexadecimal (e.g. password.00020406080A0C0E for bytes 0,2,4,6,8,10,12,14)
.PP
The data portion is 8 bytes that will be used as a new 
.I password.
.SS subkey[0|1|2]/secure_data.hex_pwd
.I read-write, binary
.br
Read or write data in one of the three sucure data areas.
.PP
The extension (hex_pwd) is the existing 8-byte password in hexadecimal (e.g. password.00020406080A0C0E for bytes 0,2,4,6,8,10,12,14)
.PP
The data portion binary data. Up to 48 bytes in each subkey area, starting at location 0. If the wrong password is specified, "random data" is returned on read and data is silently ignored on write.
.SS subkey[0|1|2]/id.hex_pwd
.I read-write, binary
.br
Read or write the subkey
.I id.
.PP
The extension (hex_pwd) is the existing 8-byte password in hexadecimal (e.g. password.00020406080A0C0E for bytes 0,2,4,6,8,10,12,14)
.PP
The data portion 8 binary bytes. This is the subkey 
.I id.
The correct password must be used to write a new 
.I id
but not to read it.
.SH STANDARD PROPERTIES
'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Paul H Alfille, MD
'\" (paul.alfille@gmail.com)
'\"
'\" Program manual page for the OWFS -- 1-wire filesystem package
'\" Based on Dallas Semiconductor, Inc's datasheets, and trial and error.
'\"
'\" Free for all use. No warranty. None. Use at your own risk.
'\"
.SS address
.SS r_address
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The entire 64-bit unique ID. Given as upper case hexadecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.br
.I address
starts with the
.I family
code
.br
.I r address
is the
.I address
in reverse order, which is often used in other applications and labeling.
.SS crc8
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The 8-bit error correction portion. Uses cyclic redundancy check. Computed from the preceding 56 bits of the unique ID number. Given as upper case hexadecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS family
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The 8-bit family code. Unique to each
.I type
of device. Given as upper case hexadecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS id
.SS r_id
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The 48-bit middle portion of the unique ID number. Does not include the family code or CRC. Given as upper case hexadecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.br
.I r id
is the
.I id
in reverse order, which is often used in other applications and labeling.
.SS locator
.SS r_locator
.I read-only, ascii
.br
Uses an extension of the 1-wire design from iButtonLink company that associated 1-wire physical connections with a unique 1-wire code. If the connection is behind a
.B Link Locator
the
.I locator will show a unique 8-byte number (16 character hexadecimal) starting with family code FE.
.br
If no
.B Link Locator
is between the device and the master, the
.I locator
field will be all FF.
.br
.I r locator
is the
.I locator
in reverse order.
.SS present (DEPRECATED)
.I read-only, yes-no
.br
Is the device currently
.I present
on the 1-wire bus?
.SS type
.I read-only, ascii
.br
Part name assigned by Dallas Semi. E.g.
.I DS2401
Alternative packaging (iButton vs chip) will not be distiguished.
.SH ALARMS
None.
.SH DESCRIPTION
'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Paul H Alfille, MD
'\" (paul.alfille@gmail.com)
'\"
'\" Program manual page for the OWFS -- 1-wire filesystem package
'\" Based on Dallas Semiconductor, Inc's datasheets, and trial and error.
'\"
'\" Free for all use. No warranty. None. Use at your own risk.
'\"
.SS 1-Wire
.I 1-wire 
is a wiring protocol and series of devices designed and manufactured
by Dallas Semiconductor, Inc. The bus is a low-power low-speed low-connector
scheme where the data line can also provide power.
.PP
Each device is uniquely and unalterably numbered during manufacture. There are a wide variety
of devices, including memory, sensors (humidity, temperature, voltage,
contact, current), switches, timers and data loggers. More complex devices (like
thermocouple sensors) can be built with these basic devices. There are also
1-wire devices that have encryption included.
.PP
The 1-wire scheme uses a single 
.I bus master
and multiple
.I slaves
on the same wire. The bus master initiates all communication. The slaves can be 
individually discovered and addressed using their unique ID.
.PP
Bus masters come in a variety of configurations including serial, parallel, i2c, network or USB
adapters.
.SS OWFS design
.I OWFS
is a suite of programs that designed to make the 1-wire bus and its
devices easily accessible. The underlying principle is to create a virtual
filesystem, with the unique ID being the directory, and the individual
properties of the device are represented as simple files that can be read and written.
.PP 
Details of the individual slave or master design are hidden behind a consistent interface. The goal is to 
provide an easy set of tools for a software designer to create monitoring or control applications. There 
are some performance enhancements in the implementation, including data caching, parallel access to bus 
masters, and aggregation of device communication. Still the fundamental goal has been ease of use, flexibility
and correctness rather than speed.
.SS DS1991
The
.B DS1991 (3)
is an iButton with password protected non-volatile memory. Data is read/written with error checking (transparent to the user). The memory is divided into 3 different pages with 3 separate passwords.
.PP
In theory, choosing an incorrect password is hard to discern because the chip responds normally but with incorrect data. There is a published analysis suggesting that the "random data" follows a pattern and so a concerted attack might be successful.
.PP
The password (in hexadecimal) is used a the file extension
.B 02.1234123414/subkey0/id.
.I password
allowing a password to be passed to the program within the filesystem paradigm.
.SH ADDRESSING
'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Paul H Alfille, MD
'\" (paul.alfille@gmail.com)
'\"
'\" Program manual page for the OWFS -- 1-wire filesystem package
'\" Based on Dallas Semiconductor, Inc's datasheets, and trial and error.
'\"
'\" Free for all use. No warranty. None. Use at your own risk.
'\"
All 1-wire devices are factory assigned a unique 64-bit address. This address is of the form:
.TP
.B Family Code
8 bits
.TP
.B Address
48 bits
.TP
.B CRC
8 bits
.IP
.PP
Addressing under OWFS is in hexadecimal, of form:
.IP
.B 01.123456789ABC
.PP
where
.B 01
is an example 8-bit family code, and
.B 12345678ABC
is an example 48 bit address.
.PP
The dot is optional, and the CRC code can included. If included, it must be correct.
.SH DATASHEET
.br
http://pdfserv.maxim-ic.com/en/ds/DS1991.pdf
.SH SEE ALSO
.SS Programs
.B owfs (1) owhttpd (1) owftpd (1) owserver (1)
.B owdir (1) owread (1) owwrite (1) owpresent (1)
.B owtap (1)
.SS Configuration and testing
.B owfs (5) owfs.aliasfile (5) owtap (1) owmon (1)
.SS Language bindings
.B owtcl (3) owperl (3) owcapi (3)
.SS Clocks
.B DS1427 (3) DS1904 (3) DS1994 (3) DS2404 (3) DS2404S (3) DS2415 (3) DS2417 (3)
.SS ID
.B DS2401 (3) DS2411 (3) DS1990A (3)
.SS Memory
.B DS1982 (3) DS1985 (3) DS1986 (3) DS1991 (3) DS1992 (3) DS1993 (3) DS1995 (3) DS1996 (3) DS2430A (3) DS2431 (3) DS2433 (3) DS2502 (3) DS2506 (3) DS28E04 (3) DS28EC20 (3)
.SS Switches
.B DS2405 (3) DS2406 (3) DS2408 (3) DS2409 (3) DS2413 (3) DS28EA00 (3) InfernoEmbedded (3)
.SS Temperature
.B DS1822 (3) DS1825 (3) DS1820 (3) DS18B20 (3) DS18S20 (3) DS1920 (3) DS1921 (3) DS1821 (3) DS28EA00 (3) DS28E04 (3) EDS0064 (3) EDS0065 (3) EDS0066 (3) EDS0067 (3) EDS0068 (3) EDS0071 (3) EDS0072 (3) MAX31826 (3)
.SS Humidity
.B DS1922 (3) DS2438 (3) EDS0065 (3) EDS0068 (3)
.SS Voltage
.B DS2450 (3)
.SS Resistance
.B DS2890 (3)
.SS Multifunction (current, voltage, temperature)
.B DS2436 (3) DS2437 (3) DS2438 (3) DS2751 (3) DS2755 (3) DS2756 (3) DS2760 (3) DS2770 (3) DS2780 (3) DS2781 (3) DS2788 (3) DS2784 (3)
.SS Counter
.B DS2423 (3)
.SS LCD Screen
.B LCD (3) DS2408 (3)
.SS Crypto
.B DS1977 (3)
.SS Pressure
.B DS2406 (3) TAI8570 (3) EDS0066 (3) EDS0068 (3)
.SS Moisture
.B EEEF (3) DS2438 (3)
.SH AVAILABILITY
http://www.owfs.org
.SH AUTHOR
Christian Magnusson (mag@mag.cx) and Paul Alfille
