'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Paul H Alfille, MD
'\" (paul.alfille@gmail.com)
'\"
'\" Device manual page for the OWFS -- 1-wire filesystem package
'\" Based on Dallas Semiconductor, Inc's datasheets, and trial and error.
'\"
'\" Free for all use. No warranty. None. Use at your own risk.
'\"
.TH DS2406 3  2003 "OWFS Manpage" "One-Wire File System"
.SH NAME
.B DS2406, DS2407
\- Dual Addressable Switch with 1kbit Memory, Hidable Dual Addressable Switch with 1kbit Memory
.SH SYNOPSIS
Dual Switch, Write-once Memory
.PP
.B 12
[.]XXXXXXXXXXXX[XX][/[
.B channels
|
.B latch.[A|B|ALL|BYTE]
|
.B memory
|
.B pages/page.[0-3|ALL]
|
.B PIO.[A|B|ALL|BYTE]
|
.B power
|
.B sensed.[A|B|ALL|BYTE]
|
.B set_alarm
|
.B TAI8570/[sibling|temperature|pressure]
|
.B T8A/volt.[0-7,ALL]
'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Paul H Alfille, MD
'\" (paul.alfille@gmail.com)
'\"
'\" Program manual page for the OWFS -- 1-wire filesystem package
'\" Based on Dallas Semiconductor, Inc's datasheets, and trial and error.
'\"
'\" Free for all use. No warranty. None. Use at your own risk.
'\"
.B address
|
.B crc8
|
.B id
|
.B locator
|
.B r_address
|
.B r_id
|
.B r_locator
|
.B type
]]
.SH FAMILY CODE
.PP
.I 12
.SH SPECIAL PROPERTIES
.SS channels
.I read-only, unsigned integer
.br
Is this a 1 or 2 channel switch? The
.I DS2406
comes in two forms, one has only one
.I PIO
pin (PIO.A). Returns 1 or 2.
.SS latch.A latch.B latch.ALL latch.BYTE
.I read-write, yes-no
.br
The activity latch is set to 1 with the first negative or positive edge detected on the associated PIO channel.
.br
Writing any data will clear latch for all (both)) channels. This is a hardware "feature" of the chip.
.br
.I ALL
references both channels simultaneously, comma separated
.br
.I BYTE
references both channels simultaneously as a single byte, with channel A in bit 0.
.SS memory
.I read-write, binary
.br
128 bytes of non-volatile, write-once data.
.SS pages/page.0 ... pages/page.3 pages/page.ALL
.I read-write, binary
.br
Memory organized as 4 pages or 32 bytes. Memory is write-once.
.br
.I ALL
is the aggregate of all 4 pages, sequentially accessed.
.SS PIO.A PIO.B PIO.ALL PIO.BYTE
.I read-write, yes-no
.br
State of the open-drain output (
.I PIO
) pin. 0 = non-conducting (off), 1 = conducting (on).
.br
Writing zero will turn off the switch, non-zero will turn on the switch. Reading the
.I PIO
state will return the switch setting (flipflop in the data sheet). To determine the actual logic level at the switch, refer to the
.I sensed
property.
.br
Note that the actual pin setting for the chip uses the opposite polarity -- 0 for conducting, 1 for non-conducting. However, to turn a connected device on (i.e. to deliver power) we use the software concept of 1 as conducting or "on".
.br
.I ALL
references both channels simultaneously, comma separated.
.br
.I BYTE
references both channels simultaneously as a single byte, with channel A in bit 0.
.SS power
.I read-only, yes-no
.br
Is the
.I DS2406
powered parasitically =0 or separately on the Vcc pin =1
.SS sensed.A sensed.B sensed.ALL sensed.BYTE
.I read-only, yes-no
.br
Logic level at the
.I PIO
pin. 0 = ground. 1 = high (~2.4V - 5V ). Really makes sense only if the
.I PIO
state is set to zero (off), else will read zero.
.br
.I ALL
references both channels simultaneously, comma separated.
.br
.I BYTE
references both channels simultaneously as a single byte, with channel A in bit 0.
.SS set_alarm
.I read-write, unsigned integer (0-331)
.br
A number consisting of three digits XYZ, where:
.TP
X
channel selection
.br
.I 0
neither
.br
.I 1
A only
.br
.I 2
B only
.br
.I 3
A or B
.TP
Y
source selection
.br
.I 0
undefined
.br
.I 1
latch
.br
.I 2
PIO
.br
.I 3
sensed
.TP
Z
polarity selection
.br
.I 0
low
.br
.I 1
high
.PP
All digits will be truncated to the 0-3 (or 0-1) range. Leading zeroes are optional (and may be problematic for some shells).
.PP
Example:
.TP
311
Responds on Conditional Search when either latch.A or latch.B (or both) are set to 1.
.TP
<100
Never responds to Conditional Search.
.SS TAI8570/
.I subdirectory
.br
Properties when the
.I DS2406 (3)
is built into a
.I TAI8570.
.br
If the
.I DS2406 (3)
is not part of a
.I TAI8570
or is not the controlling switch, attempts to read will result in an error.
.SS TAI8570/pressure
.I read-only, floating point
.br
Barometric
.I pressure
in millibar.
.SS TAI8570/sibling
.I read-only, ascii
.br
Hex address of the
.I DS2406 (3)
paired with this chip in a
.I TAI8570.
.SS TAI8570/temperature
.I read-only, floating-point
.br
Ambient
.I temperature
measured by the
.I TAI8570
in prevailing temperature units (Centigrade is the default).
.SS T8A/volt.[0-7|ALL]
.I read-only, floating-point
.br
Uses the T8A (by
.I Embedded Data Systems
) 8 channel voltage converter. Units in volts, 0 to 5V range. 12 bit resolution.
.SH STANDARD PROPERTIES
'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Paul H Alfille, MD
'\" (paul.alfille@gmail.com)
'\"
'\" Program manual page for the OWFS -- 1-wire filesystem package
'\" Based on Dallas Semiconductor, Inc's datasheets, and trial and error.
'\"
'\" Free for all use. No warranty. None. Use at your own risk.
'\"
.SS address
.SS r_address
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The entire 64-bit unique ID. Given as upper case hexadecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.br
.I address
starts with the
.I family
code
.br
.I r address
is the
.I address
in reverse order, which is often used in other applications and labeling.
.SS crc8
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The 8-bit error correction portion. Uses cyclic redundancy check. Computed from the preceding 56 bits of the unique ID number. Given as upper case hexadecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS family
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The 8-bit family code. Unique to each
.I type
of device. Given as upper case hexadecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.SS id
.SS r_id
.I read-only, ascii
.br
The 48-bit middle portion of the unique ID number. Does not include the family code or CRC. Given as upper case hexadecimal digits (0-9A-F).
.br
.I r id
is the
.I id
in reverse order, which is often used in other applications and labeling.
.SS locator
.SS r_locator
.I read-only, ascii
.br
Uses an extension of the 1-wire design from iButtonLink company that associated 1-wire physical connections with a unique 1-wire code. If the connection is behind a
.B Link Locator
the
.I locator will show a unique 8-byte number (16 character hexadecimal) starting with family code FE.
.br
If no
.B Link Locator
is between the device and the master, the
.I locator
field will be all FF.
.br
.I r locator
is the
.I locator
in reverse order.
.SS present (DEPRECATED)
.I read-only, yes-no
.br
Is the device currently
.I present
on the 1-wire bus?
.SS type
.I read-only, ascii
.br
Part name assigned by Dallas Semi. E.g.
.I DS2401
Alternative packaging (iButton vs chip) will not be distiguished.
.SH ALARMS
Use the
.I set_alarm
property to set the alarm triggering criteria.
.SH DESCRIPTION
'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Paul H Alfille, MD
'\" (paul.alfille@gmail.com)
'\"
'\" Program manual page for the OWFS -- 1-wire filesystem package
'\" Based on Dallas Semiconductor, Inc's datasheets, and trial and error.
'\"
'\" Free for all use. No warranty. None. Use at your own risk.
'\"
.SS 1-Wire
.I 1-wire 
is a wiring protocol and series of devices designed and manufactured
by Dallas Semiconductor, Inc. The bus is a low-power low-speed low-connector
scheme where the data line can also provide power.
.PP
Each device is uniquely and unalterably numbered during manufacture. There are a wide variety
of devices, including memory, sensors (humidity, temperature, voltage,
contact, current), switches, timers and data loggers. More complex devices (like
thermocouple sensors) can be built with these basic devices. There are also
1-wire devices that have encryption included.
.PP
The 1-wire scheme uses a single 
.I bus master
and multiple
.I slaves
on the same wire. The bus master initiates all communication. The slaves can be 
individually discovered and addressed using their unique ID.
.PP
Bus masters come in a variety of configurations including serial, parallel, i2c, network or USB
adapters.
.SS OWFS design
.I OWFS
is a suite of programs that designed to make the 1-wire bus and its
devices easily accessible. The underlying principle is to create a virtual
filesystem, with the unique ID being the directory, and the individual
properties of the device are represented as simple files that can be read and written.
.PP 
Details of the individual slave or master design are hidden behind a consistent interface. The goal is to 
provide an easy set of tools for a software designer to create monitoring or control applications. There 
are some performance enhancements in the implementation, including data caching, parallel access to bus 
masters, and aggregation of device communication. Still the fundamental goal has been ease of use, flexibility
and correctness rather than speed.
.SS DS2406
The
.B DS2406 (3)
allows control of other devices, like LEDs and relays. It superceeds the
.B DS2405
and
.B DS2407
Alternative switches include the
.B DS2408
or even
.B DS2450
.br
The
.B DS2407
is practically identical to the
.I DS2406
except for a strange
.I hidden
mode. It is supported just like the
.B DS2406
.SS TAI8570
The
.I TAI-8570 Pressure Sensor
is based on a 1-wire composite device by
.I AAG Electronica.
The
.I TAI8570
uses 2
.I DS2406 (3)
chips, paired as a reader and writer to synthesize 3-wire communication. Only 1 of the
.I DS2406 (3)
will allow
.I temperature
or
.I pressure
readings. It's mate's address can be shown as
.I sibling.
.PP
The
.I TAI8570
uses the
.I Intersema MS5534a
pressure sensor, and stores calibration and temperature compensation values internally.
.PP
Design and code examples are available from AAG Electronica http://aag.com.mx
, specific permission to use code in a GPL product was given by Mr. Aitor Arrieta of AAG and Dr. Simon Melhuish of OWW.
.SH ADDRESSING
'\"
'\" Copyright (c) 2003-2004 Paul H Alfille, MD
'\" (paul.alfille@gmail.com)
'\"
'\" Program manual page for the OWFS -- 1-wire filesystem package
'\" Based on Dallas Semiconductor, Inc's datasheets, and trial and error.
'\"
'\" Free for all use. No warranty. None. Use at your own risk.
'\"
All 1-wire devices are factory assigned a unique 64-bit address. This address is of the form:
.TP
.B Family Code
8 bits
.TP
.B Address
48 bits
.TP
.B CRC
8 bits
.IP
.PP
Addressing under OWFS is in hexadecimal, of form:
.IP
.B 01.123456789ABC
.PP
where
.B 01
is an example 8-bit family code, and
.B 12345678ABC
is an example 48 bit address.
.PP
The dot is optional, and the CRC code can included. If included, it must be correct.
.SH DATASHEET
.br
http://pdfserv.maxim-ic.com/en/ds/DS2406.pdf
.br
http://pdfserv.maxim-ic.com/en/ds/DS2407.pdf
.br
http://www.embeddeddatasystems.com/page/EDS/PROD/IO/T8A
.br
http://oww.sourceforge.net/hardware.html#bp
.SH SEE ALSO
.SS Programs
.B owfs (1) owhttpd (1) owftpd (1) owserver (1)
.B owdir (1) owread (1) owwrite (1) owpresent (1)
.B owtap (1)
.SS Configuration and testing
.B owfs (5) owfs.aliasfile (5) owtap (1) owmon (1)
.SS Language bindings
.B owtcl (3) owperl (3) owcapi (3)
.SS Clocks
.B DS1427 (3) DS1904 (3) DS1994 (3) DS2404 (3) DS2404S (3) DS2415 (3) DS2417 (3)
.SS ID
.B DS2401 (3) DS2411 (3) DS1990A (3)
.SS Memory
.B DS1982 (3) DS1985 (3) DS1986 (3) DS1991 (3) DS1992 (3) DS1993 (3) DS1995 (3) DS1996 (3) DS2430A (3) DS2431 (3) DS2433 (3) DS2502 (3) DS2506 (3) DS28E04 (3) DS28EC20 (3)
.SS Switches
.B DS2405 (3) DS2406 (3) DS2408 (3) DS2409 (3) DS2413 (3) DS28EA00 (3) InfernoEmbedded (3)
.SS Temperature
.B DS1822 (3) DS1825 (3) DS1820 (3) DS18B20 (3) DS18S20 (3) DS1920 (3) DS1921 (3) DS1821 (3) DS28EA00 (3) DS28E04 (3) EDS0064 (3) EDS0065 (3) EDS0066 (3) EDS0067 (3) EDS0068 (3) EDS0071 (3) EDS0072 (3) MAX31826 (3)
.SS Humidity
.B DS1922 (3) DS2438 (3) EDS0065 (3) EDS0068 (3)
.SS Voltage
.B DS2450 (3)
.SS Resistance
.B DS2890 (3)
.SS Multifunction (current, voltage, temperature)
.B DS2436 (3) DS2437 (3) DS2438 (3) DS2751 (3) DS2755 (3) DS2756 (3) DS2760 (3) DS2770 (3) DS2780 (3) DS2781 (3) DS2788 (3) DS2784 (3)
.SS Counter
.B DS2423 (3)
.SS LCD Screen
.B LCD (3) DS2408 (3)
.SS Crypto
.B DS1977 (3)
.SS Pressure
.B DS2406 (3) TAI8570 (3) EDS0066 (3) EDS0068 (3)
.SS Moisture
.B EEEF (3) DS2438 (3)
.SH AVAILABILITY
http://www.owfs.org
.SH AUTHOR
Paul Alfille (paul.alfille@gmail.com)
